navigation/Minigames/format.md, before:

---
layout: bootstrap
title: Format
description: Our ideas and format for the other 6 games
permalink: /format
Author: Zach
---

# GenomeGamers
These new 14 games we will add to the 6 already implemented biotech related games.

### GenomeGamers Frontend & Backend Repositories
- [Frontend Repository](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend)
- [Backend Repository](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersBackend)

### KanBan Board
[KanBan Board](https://github.com/users/Prad-coder/projects/1)

### Initial Plan
[Initial Plan](http://127.0.0.1:4887/GenomeGamersFrontend/games/2025/05/06/Initial_Plan.html)

### Ideate
These new games will be fun and entertaining and add more variety to our biotech learning games.

### What is its purpose?
The purpose is to make users content and show off what games we have created using frontend and backend features.

### Source 
Main source is using our already implemented website with the biotech games and adding more games that are not completely biotech related.

### This Issue
- We will add this issue onto our website for other users to see how we designed everything for our website.
- We will add points to every game and deploy which would allow the user to not need to run the backend to receive them.

<img width="709" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1315b8c6-b13c-4955-b516-8dec0e1b1e2e" />

### Objective
- **Make new entertaining and engaging games** 
- **Have fun creating them and making users know the purpose of making games**

### Roles For the project
- **Project Manager, Scrum Master, and Testing** - Ian Manangan
- **Frontend and Backend Developer** - Zach Peltz
- **ML Engineer and Data Science Lead** - Aarush Kota

### **1. Pacman Game**
- **Gameplay:** Players play a game similar to pacman, the goal being to collect all the items without getting caught.

[Pacman Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/49)

<img width="371" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a9e7cf89-ca7c-47d5-91be-d4a0918f970e" />

---

### **2. Slot Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a slot based game where they try to earn as many blood cells as possible.

[Slot Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/50)

<img width="343" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c027d5d7-105d-4574-a34e-df4bb3124459" />
 
---

### **3. Farming Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players are on a farm collecting and as many resources as they can.

[Farming Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/51)

<img width="363" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b003aa06-7e2a-48ef-bd28-b77bac934d10" />

---

### **4. Table Tennis**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will play a game of table tennis against an opponent, whoever gets the highest score wins.

[Table Tennis Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/52)

<img width="371" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ecdd9b7b-efa2-489d-8b9e-049b50e235d8" />

---

### **5. Tower Defense**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will defend a base with different troops and towers against enemies.

[Tower Defense Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/53)

<img width="368" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4f57dc34-fa89-4f1c-a078-4f0837629360" />

---

### **6. Clicking Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will play a clicking game to gain the most of a resource by buying powerups/abilities.

[Clicking Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/54)

<img width="374" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e97db56-54c2-45c0-8384-44c91049ed1e" />

---

### **7. Racing Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a racing game to get to the finish line using powerups and abilities.

[Racing Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/66)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8010da69-8ac3-4102-b863-996bf3a1cdd5)

---

### **8. Party Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a game where you roll dice and make it to the end of the track.

[Party Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/67)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6939598c-be31-489a-b501-16de793176b9)

---

### **9. Puzzle Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players a puzzle game to match lines in a specific order.

[Puzzle Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/68)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7cf442fa-eb75-4b68-9a28-68b00e2d789c)

---

### **10. Battle Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a battle game where the last one standing wins.

[Battle Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/69)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a961a126-4855-4885-9e0a-daffe52a2240)

---

### **11. Tests Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play many tests where they figure out their reaction time, typing, and etc. metrics.

[Tests Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/70)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea009077-e7fe-43eb-a6cb-de1060706aae)

---

### **12. Strategy Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a strategy game to break blocks and progress levels.

[Strategy Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/71)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/778d83d8-511d-4c8a-a276-dd79e56e5699)

---

### **13. Survive Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a survival game to kill mobs and enemies.

[Survive Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/72)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7176dc37-5632-4484-b06f-ee81643155be)

---

### **14. Simulation Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a simulation game to collect resources and build a civilization.

[Simulation Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/73)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59880bb0-6b74-44ce-92a3-f54e25eb880e)

Commit message:

final save for today - add stealth game in blogs

navigation/Minigames/format.md, after:

---
layout: bootstrap
title: Format
description: Our ideas and format for the other 6 games
permalink: /format
Author: Zach
---

# GenomeGamers
These new 15 games we will add to the 6 already implemented biotech related games.

### GenomeGamers Frontend & Backend Repositories
- [Frontend Repository](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend)
- [Backend Repository](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersBackend)

### KanBan Board
[KanBan Board](https://github.com/users/Prad-coder/projects/1)

### Initial Plan
[Initial Plan](http://127.0.0.1:4887/GenomeGamersFrontend/games/2025/05/06/Initial_Plan.html)

### Ideate
These new games will be fun and entertaining and add more variety to our biotech learning games.

### What is its purpose?
The purpose is to make users content and show off what games we have created using frontend and backend features.

### Source 
Main source is using our already implemented website with the biotech games and adding more games that are not completely biotech related.

### This Issue
- We will add this issue onto our website for other users to see how we designed everything for our website.
- We will add points to every game and deploy which would allow the user to not need to run the backend to receive them.

<img width="705" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1ea60f8-89de-446f-b7ce-905dc9e4f9c6" />

### Objective
- **Make new entertaining and engaging games** 
- **Have fun creating them and making users know the purpose of making games**

### Roles For the project
- **Project Manager, Scrum Master, and Testing** - Ian Manangan
- **Frontend and Backend Developer** - Zach Peltz
- **ML Engineer and Data Science Lead** - Aarush Kota

### **1. Pacman Game**
- **Gameplay:** Players play a game similar to pacman, the goal being to collect all the items without getting caught.

[Pacman Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/49)

<img width="371" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a9e7cf89-ca7c-47d5-91be-d4a0918f970e" />

---

### **2. Slot Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a slot based game where they try to earn as many blood cells as possible.

[Slot Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/50)

<img width="343" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c027d5d7-105d-4574-a34e-df4bb3124459" />
 
---

### **3. Farming Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players are on a farm collecting and as many resources as they can.

[Farming Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/51)

<img width="363" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b003aa06-7e2a-48ef-bd28-b77bac934d10" />

---

### **4. Table Tennis**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will play a game of table tennis against an opponent, whoever gets the highest score wins.

[Table Tennis Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/52)

<img width="371" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ecdd9b7b-efa2-489d-8b9e-049b50e235d8" />

---

### **5. Tower Defense**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will defend a base with different troops and towers against enemies.

[Tower Defense Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/53)

<img width="368" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4f57dc34-fa89-4f1c-a078-4f0837629360" />

---

### **6. Clicking Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players will play a clicking game to gain the most of a resource by buying powerups/abilities.

[Clicking Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/54)

<img width="374" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e97db56-54c2-45c0-8384-44c91049ed1e" />

---

### **7. Racing Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a racing game to get to the finish line using powerups and abilities.

[Racing Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/66)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8010da69-8ac3-4102-b863-996bf3a1cdd5)

---

### **8. Party Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a game where you roll dice and make it to the end of the track.

[Party Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/67)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6939598c-be31-489a-b501-16de793176b9)

---

### **9. Puzzle Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players a puzzle game to match lines in a specific order.

[Puzzle Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/68)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7cf442fa-eb75-4b68-9a28-68b00e2d789c)

---

### **10. Battle Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a battle game where the last one standing wins.

[Battle Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/69)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a961a126-4855-4885-9e0a-daffe52a2240)

---

### **11. Tests Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play many tests where they figure out their reaction time, typing, and etc. metrics.

[Tests Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/70)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea009077-e7fe-43eb-a6cb-de1060706aae)

---

### **12. Stealth Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players try to be sneaky and get past guards and troops without being caught.

[Stealth Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/75)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c8d2a216-8c29-4026-971f-27e5c2c87a23)

--- 

### **13. Strategy Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a strategy game to break blocks and progress levels.

[Strategy Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/71)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/778d83d8-511d-4c8a-a276-dd79e56e5699)

---

### **14. Survive Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a survival game to kill mobs and enemies.

[Survive Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/72)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7176dc37-5632-4484-b06f-ee81643155be)

---

### **15. Simulation Game**  
- **Gameplay:** Players play a simulation game to collect resources and build a civilization.

[Simulation Burndown](https://github.com/Prad-coder/GenomeGamersFrontend/issues/73)

![Image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59880bb0-6b74-44ce-92a3-f54e25eb880e)
